docs/trace_viewer.md, before:

## Trace Viewer Tool

You can use Trace Viewer to visualize the timeline of events that occurred
during the profiling session. It displays the durations of operations executed
by your model on different parts of the system, such as the host (CPU) and
accelerators (GPUs or TPUs). This enables you to understand how your model
utilizes hardware resources, identify performance bottlenecks, and optimize your
model for faster execution. The Trace Viewer UI is based on the one used in
`chrome://tracing` and therefore requires that you use the Chrome browser.

![Trace Viewer](images/trace_viewer.png)

### Supported Platforms

Both TPU and GPU are supported.

The Trace Viewer for GPUs groups events on timelines per GPU chip and the
streams within it, while for TPUs, it organizes events on timelines per TPU chip
and core. In either case, Trace Viewer also presents events on timelines
per-thread for the host CPU that the accelerators are connected to.

### Interacting with the Timeline

Trace Viewer provides several tools and methods for navigating and examining the
timeline:

*   Navigation: You can use the following keyboard shortcuts:
    *   **W:** Zoom in.
    *   **S:** Zoom out.
    *   **A:** Pan left.
    *   **D:** Pan right.
*   Tool selector: You can click a tool in the tool selector or use the
    corresponding keyboard shortcut:
    *   **Selection Tool (1 or !):** Click an event to select it and view its
        details in the Details pane. Select multiple events via ctrl+click to
        see a summary.
    *   **Pan Tool (2 or @):** Drag to move the timeline horizontally
        or vertically.
    *   **Zoom Tool (3 or #):** Drag to zoom into a specific area of
        the timeline.
    *   **Timing Tool (4 or $):** Drag to mark a time interval. The
        duration of the marked interval will be displayed. You can also use the
        'm' key to mark a selection and determine its total duration.
*   Zoom to selected events (f): Select one or more events and press the 'f' key
    to quickly zoom into that portion of the timeline. This is useful for
    focusing on a specific training step.

When handling a large number of trace events, Trace Viewer works in streaming
mode. This means it loads data on demand as you pan and zoom across the
timeline, similar to how map applications work. If you zoom faster than the data
can load, you might see a low-resolution representation of the data until it
finishes loading.

### Trace Viewer Interface Components

Here are the main UI components in Trace Viewer:

*   The time axis runs horizontally at the top, showing time relative to the
    start of the trace.
*   Timelines are organized by sections and tracks, with labels located on the
    left vertical axis. Each section represents a processing element (e.g., a
    device node or host threads) and can be expanded or collapsed. Within each
    section are tracks, which are timelines for specific activities.
*   Events are the colored, rectangular blocks on the timeline tracks,
    representing the duration of an operation or a meta-event like a training
    step. The color of the events does not have a specific meaning.
*   The details pane shows additional information about the events selected in
    the timeline pane, such as their name, start time, and duration.

### Typical Sections and Tracks

Trace Viewer provides the following sections and tracks.

*   One section for each TPU node, with the following tracks:
    *   XLA Module: the XLA program being executed.
    *   XLA Ops: Shows the XLA HLO operations that ran on the TPU core. Each
        higher-level framework operation (JAX, Tensorflow, or PyTorch, for
        example) is translated into one or several XLA operations, which are
        then compiled to run on the TPU. When you click an XLA operation, you
        can see links to the op in the Graph Viewer, along with additional
        information about the op such as the start/stop times, duration, and
        source stack trace (if made available by the framework and compiler).
    *   XLA TraceMe: User-specified annotations in their code describing logical
        units of work they intend to track. You may still see data here even if
        you didn’t add any annotations; those are typically added by XLA (e.g.,
        barrier cores), or XProf itself (e.g., dropped trace entries).
    *   Step: Shows the duration of the training steps running on that TPU core,
        if appropriately annotated in the user program or framework.
    *   Framework Ops: Displays framework operations (JAX, Tensorflow, or
        PyTorch, for example) executed on the TPU core, if appropriately
        annotated in the user program or framework.
    *   Framework Name Scope: For each framework op, a visualization of the
        stack trace. For brevity, this track only appears for a single device.
    *   Source code: Path to the source code being executed, if available in the
        profile.
    *   Scalar unit: For TPUs, events executing on the scalar unit, depicted if
        present in the profile.
    *   TensorCore Sync Flags: Synchronization mechanism on TPUs, depicted if
        present in the profile.
    *   Host Offload: Ops that asynchronously move data between host memory and
        accelerator memory. There are typically corresponding start and stop ops
        that appear on the XLA Ops line indicating the accelerator getting
        prepared for the data transfer (e.g., marking source/destination memory
        regions as “in use” for the duration of the transfer). There may be
        multiple host offload rows present if there are multiple offload ops
        executing in parallel, requiring the trace viewer to concurrently
        display multiple events.
*   One section for each Sparsecore node: Some TPU generations (e.g., TPU v5p
    and TPU v6e) are
    equipped with one or more SparseCore units in addition to the dense compute
    MXU units;
    modules, ops, and TraceMes associated with these cores will appear in this
    section.
*   One section for each GPU node, with the following tracks:
    *   XLA Modules, Framework Ops, Framework Name Scope, Steps, Source code.
        These are all similar to TPU sections.
    *   One track per stream, with the stream name also including information
        about the types of operations executed on the stream (Memcpy, Compute,
        etc.).
    *   XLA TraceMe is not supported for GPUs.
    *   XLA Ops do appear in GPU sections, but these are not currently always
        accurate, since they are derived from the stream data. They therefore
        can’t fully account for the GPU’s execution model where there may be an
        N:M mapping of XLA Ops to the actual kernels that get executed on the
        different streams, and the dynamic scheduling of multiple streams onto
        different SMs in the hardware.
*   One section for each component (e.g., one threadpool) running on the host
    machine's CPU, with one track per thread, in the case of threadpools. This
    is also where you will see Python traces if these were enabled during
    profile collection.

Note that only the XLA Ops for TPUs and stream data for GPUs are directly
grounded in the collected profile; all other lines are “derived lines”,
involving optional “sideband” information provided by the compiler, optional
user annotations, and/or heuristics applied by XProf. Therefore, these derived
lines may or may not appear in certain profiles.

### Other Features

*   You can search for specific event names using the “Find events..” search
    bar. Currently, this only searches within the visible time-window on screen,
    rather than the full trace.
*   Flow Events: Enabling this option by clicking the “Flow Events” button in
    the top bar adds visualizations, linking events in one thread or line to
    events in another thread line. For example, there may be an arrow drawn from
    the op on the host that enqueues or launches work for an accelerator, to the
    op on the accelerator that executes that work. XProf determines these links
    via a combination of user annotations, built-in heuristics, and by
    post-processing information it receives from different components (e.g.,
    CUPTI drivers, kernel launch IDs, TPU runtime information, etc.).
*   Clicking on an XLA op provides additional information in the details pane.
    For example, it links to the op in the Graph Viewer tool. It may also
    provide pointers to source code and/or the Python stack trace, the framework
    op that caused this XLA op to get generated, etc. (if present in the
    profile). It may also show FLOPS (number of floating point operations
    executed by the op) and bytes accessed by the op; this information is
    statically acquired from XLA during compilation, rather than runtime
    information from the profile.

Commit message:

Reviewing individual tools
Signed-off-by: Melissa Weber Mendonça <melissawm@gmail.com>

docs/trace_viewer.md, after:

## Trace Viewer Tool

You can use Trace Viewer to visualize the timeline of events that occurred
during the profiling session. It displays the durations of operations executed
by your model on different parts of the system, such as the host (CPU) and
accelerators (GPUs or TPUs). This enables you to understand how your model
utilizes hardware resources, identify performance bottlenecks, and optimize your
model for faster execution. The Trace Viewer UI is based on the one used in
`chrome://tracing` and therefore requires that you use the Chrome browser.

![Trace Viewer](images/trace_viewer.png)

### Supported Platforms

Both TPU and GPU are supported.

The Trace Viewer for GPUs groups events on timelines per GPU chip and the
streams within it, while for TPUs, it organizes events on timelines per TPU chip
and core. In either case, Trace Viewer also presents events on timelines
per-thread for the host CPU that the accelerators are connected to.

### Interacting with the Timeline

Trace Viewer provides several tools and methods for navigating and examining the
timeline:

*   Navigation: After clicking an event in the timeline, you can use the
    following keyboard shortcuts:
    *   **W:** Zoom in.
    *   **S:** Zoom out.
    *   **A:** Pan left.
    *   **D:** Pan right.
*   Tool selector: A floating tool selector contains tools you can use by
    clicking on corresponding icons, or by using the corresponding keyboard
    shortcuts:
    *   **Selection Tool (1 or !):** Click an event to select it and view its
        details in the Details pane. Select multiple events via ctrl+click to
        see a summary.
    *   **Pan Tool (2 or @):** Drag to move the timeline horizontally
        or vertically.
    *   **Zoom Tool (3 or #):** Drag to zoom into a specific area of
        the timeline.
    *   **Timing Tool (4 or $):** Drag to mark a time interval. The
        duration of the marked interval will be displayed. You can also use the
        'm' key to mark a selection and determine its total duration.
*   Zoom to selected events (f): Select one or more events and press the 'f' key
    to quickly zoom into that portion of the timeline. This is useful for
    focusing on a specific training step.

![Trace Viewer Tool Selector](images/trace_viewer_tool_selector.png)

When handling a large number of trace events, Trace Viewer works in streaming
mode. This means it loads data on demand as you pan and zoom across the
timeline, similar to how map applications work. If you zoom faster than the data
can load, you might see a low-resolution representation of the data until it
finishes loading.

### Trace Viewer Interface Components

Here are the main UI components in Trace Viewer:

*   The time axis runs horizontally at the top, showing time relative to the
    start of the trace.
*   Timelines are organized by sections and tracks, with labels located on the
    left vertical axis. Each section represents a processing element (e.g., a
    device node or host threads) and can be expanded or collapsed. Within each
    section are tracks, which are timelines for specific activities.
*   Events are the colored, rectangular blocks on the timeline tracks,
    representing the duration of an operation or a meta-event like a training
    step. The color of the events does not have a specific meaning.
*   The details pane, which appears at the bottom of the timeline when one or
    more events are selected, shows additional information about the selected
    events, such as their name, start time and duration. When an XLA operation
    is selected, you can see links to the op in the
    [Graph Viewer](graph_viewer.md) tool and other information that can be made
    available by the framework and compiler, including pointers to source code
    and/or the Python stack trace, the framework op that caused this XLA op to
    get generated, etc. It may also show FLOPS (number of floating point
    operations executed by the op) and bytes accessed by the op. This
    information is statically acquired from XLA during compilation, rather than
    runtime information from the profile.

### Typical Sections and Tracks

Trace Viewer provides the following sections and tracks.

*   One section for each TPU node, with the following tracks:
    *   XLA Modules: the XLA program being executed.
    *   XLA Ops: Shows the XLA HLO operations that ran on the TPU core. Each
        higher-level framework operation (JAX, Tensorflow, or PyTorch, for
        example) is translated into one or several XLA operations, which are
        then compiled to run on the TPU. 
    *   XLA TraceMe: User-specified annotations in their code describing logical
        units of work they intend to track. You may still see data here even if
        you didn’t add any annotations; those are typically added by XLA (e.g.,
        barrier cores), or XProf itself (e.g., dropped trace entries).
    *   Steps: Shows the duration of the training steps running on that TPU
        core, if appropriately annotated in the user program or framework.
    *   Framework Ops: Displays framework operations (JAX, Tensorflow, or
        PyTorch, for example) executed on the TPU core, if appropriately
        annotated in the user program or framework.
    *   Framework Name Scope: For each framework op, a visualization of the
        stack trace. For brevity, this track only appears for a single device.
    *   Source code: Path to the source code being executed, if available in the
        profile.
    *   Scalar unit: For TPUs, events executing on the scalar unit, depicted if
        present in the profile.
    *   TensorCore Sync Flags: Synchronization mechanism on TPUs, depicted if
        present in the profile.
    *   Host Offload: Ops that asynchronously move data between host memory and
        accelerator memory. There are typically corresponding start and stop ops
        that appear on the XLA Ops line indicating the accelerator getting
        prepared for the data transfer (e.g., marking source/destination memory
        regions as “in use” for the duration of the transfer). There may be
        multiple host offload rows present if there are multiple offload ops
        executing in parallel, requiring the trace viewer to concurrently
        display multiple events.
*   One section for each Sparsecore node: Some TPU generations (e.g., TPU v5p
    and TPU v6e) are
    equipped with one or more SparseCore units in addition to the dense compute
    MXU units;
    modules, ops, and TraceMes associated with these cores will appear in this
    section.
*   One section for each GPU node, with the following tracks:
    *   XLA Modules, Framework Ops, Framework Name Scope, Steps, Source code.
        These are all similar to TPU sections.
    *   One track per stream, with the stream name also including information
        about the types of operations executed on the stream (Memcpy, Compute,
        etc.).
    *   XLA TraceMe is not supported for GPUs.
    *   XLA Ops do appear in GPU sections, but these are not currently always
        accurate, since they are derived from the stream data. They therefore
        can’t fully account for the GPU’s execution model where there may be an
        N:M mapping of XLA Ops to the actual kernels that get executed on the
        different streams, and the dynamic scheduling of multiple streams onto
        different SMs in the hardware.
*   One section for each component (e.g., one threadpool) running on the host
    machine's CPU, with one track per thread, in the case of threadpools. This
    is also where you will see Python traces if these were enabled during
    profile collection.

Note that only the XLA Ops for TPUs and stream data for GPUs are directly
grounded in the collected profile; all other lines are “derived lines”,
involving optional “sideband” information provided by the compiler, optional
user annotations, and/or heuristics applied by XProf. Therefore, these derived
lines may or may not appear in certain profiles.

### Other Features

*   You can search for specific event names using the “Find events..” search
    bar. Currently, this only searches within the visible time-window on screen,
    rather than the full trace.
*   Flow Events: Enabling this option by clicking the “Flow Events” button in
    the top bar adds visualizations, linking events in one thread or line to
    events in another thread line. For example, there may be an arrow drawn from
    the op on the host that enqueues or launches work for an accelerator, to the
    op on the accelerator that executes that work. XProf determines these links
    via a combination of user annotations, built-in heuristics, and by
    post-processing information it receives from different components (e.g.,
    CUPTI drivers, kernel launch IDs, TPU runtime information, etc.).
